So let's get the initial get going.
So in server.j s, so on a connection,
We're gonna say right here, socket.emit,
which is how you like admit or
you write out events to clients.
We're gonna make an event and we're
just gonna call it a message called get.
So this is arbitrarily named,
we can name it whatever we want.
It's just like the name of an event.
And then your clients can
subscribe this some events, right?
Maybe there's a new user connect or
there's a, I don't know,
whatever kind of events you can think of.
You can subscribe to some of them,
you can not subscribe to some of them,
all that kinda stuff.
So we're gonna emit to that client
this message get event, and
we're gonna say all chat, sorry.
Not that rather,
I'm mixing up my thing here.
Rather you're gonna admit
the payload with it,
which is gonna be message,
get messages, like that.
So now we're going to send
to the client your messages.
Smaller again.
And then we're gonna come
down here to socket.io chat.
And we're just gonna say, just like
we say on connecting on disconnect,
we're just gonna say socket.on,
whatever the name of our event was.
Was which was messaged get run this code.
So this is what I'm trying
to illustrate too now,
is that socket.io is a messaging
busing system, right?
Almost like, something like
simple queue service can be for
Amazon AWS, just like Kafka and
things like that.
So you can kind of do with these
kind of pub sub sort of things.
Not totally the same,
there's wild differences there, but
just the general concept there
of pub sub is available too.
So we're gonna say
All Chat Equals data.message.
And then we're gonna call render.
So anytime you get new messages,
just render that business.
Basically always you're saying there,
Okay, There you go.
So now you can see the messages
are coming back from the server and
is rendering just fine for the user.
Okay, let's go right to the server now.
So here in socket IO chat, we're gonna
write our post new message here.
So we're gonna say same const
data equals user Text and
we're just going to say socket dot emit.
Message post, Data.
So now we're just sending that
same data back to the server using
the same sort of methodology here.
We just gotta wait for that on the server.
So here socket.on message post.
Grab the data run this function,
and we're gonna say message push.
User, data.user.
Text, data.text, and time, date.now.
So this is the part that hopefully
will kind of blow you away of just how
easy this part is.
Now we want to rebroadcast this out to all
users connected to our socket.io instance,
right?
You're just going to say IO
instead of socket, right?
Which is just the individual
socket that you're working on,
right, iO represents the entire server.
So we can just say IO.emit.
Message get, Message colon, and
get messages And that's it.
To now to broadcast and
the entire server, it's just send it out,
send it to everybody.
I think that's pretty compelling.
All right, so now we have Brian here,
and we can say,
And Open another instance here.
Right and
it's just happening on both sides here.
This is the killer.
If you look at line 38 here,
it's like, that's the part,
that's the killer part of socket.io for
me.
Then you want to use socket.io because
those kind of features are built into
socket.io.
And you might be thinking like, well,
that's gonna send it to everybody, right?
What if I just want to send
it to some users, right?
That's what the concept of rooms are for,
right?
We can actually put groups of
users into like a room of users.
And then you can just broadcast on
the room instead of on the entire
server, right?
Which is basically like a pool of users
that you can send things out to, and
that's what these messages are for.
You might wonder,
why did use a colon there?
It's like namespacing kind of for
messages.
It's really common.
You'll see it like in Redis and
socket.io in other places like that.
Where it's the message namespace, you can
see I've messaged post, a message get,
I could have user update, and
user change, and things like that.
And you could actually have different
namespaces of commands, right?
And all sorts of fun functionality
that comes along with that.
But hopefully, you've watched the entire
course of this portlet, where we've kind
of built up this idea of, I want to
send a message from a user to a server.
And then broadcast out
to a group of users.
He was kind of building up to basically
this one line of, look how easy this is,
how easy it can be and how impressive
some of the software really is.
And this is really it, like I said, there
are more features to socket.io.io and
WebSockets, but
this is the groundwork for all.
It's all kind of just permutations of this
right of allowing users to listen to some
events and not to others, basically.
And the good news is, that's it that
like this is really it for socket.io.
There's not any more
code to be written here.
What took us lines, and lines, and
lines of code to write for WebSockets and
HTTP to push and all that kind of stuff,
is accomplished on what?
24 to 40, pretty cool stuff.
So, this is it for
the the coding of the of the course.
Just to kind of give you some general high
level ideas of if you wanted to like dig
more into this and kind of figure
out some more stuff for this.
You could convert this page here
to a react app or to a svelte or
Angular Ember app or something like that.
Or view and see how your favorite
framework can interact with WebSockets
because they all kind of have
their own ways of doing it, right?
With react yet be careful to not not
dispose of the connections, right?
That's a really easy thing to do.
With Vue, there's like reactivity there's
you can actually build that into like
the reactive parts of the framework,
which is kind of fun thing to do.
You can plug sockets into RX js and
you can get like reactive sockets,
which is pretty compelling.
All sorts of fun stuff there.
You can get into like private
messaging between users.
So you could have two users and you could
have the ability to send private messages
to each other and
how you would try and secure that.
You can do authentication and
authorization.
There's nothing special here for
auth for WebSockets.
It just works the same way as HTTP two or
HTTP in general.
What's just gonna be like a cookie or
a session or something like that.
You can add rooms, we talked about that.
You can have a super user or
an admin that can see all
the various different room activity.
And then another good one would be to
connect this to Reds or two MongoDB, or
something like that, and actually
perpetuate this beyond into a database.
Those are all be really good projects for
this.
The complete project here is down
here at web socket slash socket IO.
That's all here.
>> You mentioned at some point
about a cue type of service.
That socket IO is kind of
implementing under the hood.
Does it have anything built in for
prevention of data loss?
>> Good question.
It does not have any sort
of data loss functionality
built into it as far as I know, right?
With something like SQL,
it'll hold on to events until someone
slips Ascribes to listen to them.
That's not necessarily
built into socket.io, but
I would imagine someone has built it.
There's probably like
libraries on top of it.
But I mean, at the end of the day,
you could just put it into like your own
Reddis queue basically, and
wait for a user to read.
And then you can just drain it
whenever the user connects to it.
That'd be a good way of doing it.